this video was made possible by dashlane
protect your digital identity for free
for 30 days by going to - link com /h a
I hello and welcome to another episode
of kind of click baby titles to get you
to watch something vaguely educational
today we are going to talk about
trillion dollar coins but first in order
to understand why the US government
would ever want to consider making a
coin that's worth more than gold plated
Jeff Bezos we have to talk a little bit
about the debt ceiling crisis of 2013
now that half the audience has gone
the year was 2013 the month was January
the number one YouTube channel was Smosh
macklemore's thrift shop was rising up
on the charts and President Barack Obama
had a problem the US was about to hit
the debt ceiling of course what's the
debt ceiling says someone so here's how
the debt ceiling works each year
Congress passes and the president signs
a budget that says how much it's going
to spend on different things so maybe it
says the government will spend 10
billion on Big Macs 20 billion on
Doritos Locos Tacos and 30 billion on
pepto-bismol it's then up to the US
Treasury to buy all those things the
Treasury gets the money to do that from
two main sources the first is taxes
which are collected from the American
people and American businesses unless
you're Amazon of course the US you see
goes for the rare graduated bell curve
tax bracket system typically though that
tax money isn't enough so the Treasury
will make up the difference by borrowing
money which is done by issuing something
called a Treasury bond basically what
happens is the Federal Reserve which is
the central bank of the United States
says to everybody hey kids if you want
to give me $100 right now I'll give you
this super cool piece of paper which is
called buy Treasury bond and what this
piece of paper says is in exchange for
your $100 a year from now I'll give you
back your $100 plus a little bit extra
or if you want to wait longer like three
or five or thirty years I'll toss in a
bit extra for your trouble so people buy
these bonds the Fed takes their $100
puts it into the bank account to the
Treasury and now just like magic the
government has a brand-new $100 that
they didn't have before as time has gone
on the US government has issued more and
more Treasury bonds and thus taken on
more and more and more and more and more
debt seriously like a lot of debt
the debt ceiling is an arbitrary number
that Congress sets as the maximum amount
of debt that the US is allowed to take
on in 2013 the number was sixteen point
three nine four trillion dollars so if
the debt were to pass sixteen point
three nine four trillion dollars then
the Fed wouldn't be allowed to borrow
any more money which means the Treasury
wouldn't be able to buy all those
crucial things in the budget normally
when the debt approaches that number
Congress just raises a debt ceiling
which means they just set a new higher
number as the limit and historically
this was a pretty uncontroversial
bipartisan process but in 2013
the republican-led Congress refused to
raise the debt ceiling unless Obama
agreed to get rid of Obamacare
unsurprisingly Obama said no to this
deal because you know it turned out that
Obama kind of liked Obamacare that'll be
like asking me to stop mispronouncing
obscure words like Buffay it was kind of
Obama's thing and so Obama began looking
for ways around the debt ceiling that's
where the trillion dollar coin came into
play the idea was if the government
can't borrow more money what if they
just made more money well they may sound
like the type of idea only a drunken
second grader would suggest bizarrely in
this case it actually made sense see
normally only the Federal Reserve can
create new money and it has to be backed
by bonds in other words if the Fed wants
to create 100 new dollars they have to
sell a one hundred dollar Treasury bond
this helps keep the US economy from
imploding in case some maniac ever gets
at the controls they can't just print as
much money as they want except thanks to
a loophole in a 1996 Bill about
commemorative coins the Treasury
actually can the law 31 USC 5-1-1 2k
Rees the Secretary may mint an issue
platinum billion coins and proof
platinum coins in accordance with such
specifications designs varieties
quantities denominations and
inscriptions as the secretary in the
Secretary's discretion may prescribe
from time to time the intent of this law
was to let the federal government create
commemorative platinum coins for special
occasions but technically because of the
bills unclear language it meant that the
Treasury secretary couldn't make a coin
so long as it was made of platinum and
then declare that it was worth any
amount of money they wanted so the plan
was for the Treasury to mint a coin
declare that the coin was worth one
trillion dollars then deposit that coin
into their bank account at the Fed which
would make the debt instead of being
sixteen point three nine four
trillion dollars only fifteen point
three nine four trillion dollars below
the ceiling eventually once Congress
raised the debt ceiling the Treasury
would just buy back the coin or melt it
down and in theory it would be like it
never existed and thus it wouldn't cause
inflation now I'm going to tell you
something that might disappoint you
although the trillion dollar coin was
genuinely considered by the White House
they never went through with the plan
so no trillion dollar coin was ever
actually minted I know I know the title
of video kind of made it seem like they
actually made the coins but you know
what the Greeks made it seem like they
were just gifting troy a cool wooden
horse not everything is as it seems
on the bright side now you know a bunch
about Treasury bonds and debt ceilings
which will come in handy the next time
you're on a date and modern US monetary
policy comes up which I have to imagine
it happens all the time
another thing that's sure to impress
your dates is if you have an incredibly
secure online presence and if you're
thinking to yourself but hey I guy how
can I possibly have an online presence
so secure that I become irresistible to
potential romantic partners don't worry
I have a solution - Lee - Lee makes
online security easy by generating safe
complex passwords for each of your
accounts storing them behind one super
secure password that'll be the only one
you'll ever have to remember and then
auto-filling them when you have to log
in that means that keeping safe with -
Lane is actually easier than being
insecure the regular way you can start
using - lien for free by signing up at
dashing calm /h ai and if you want to
get access to all kinds of other super
cool features that keep you safe online
like dark web monitoring and a VPN you
can upgrade a premium for 10% off by
using the code h a